---
title: "I'm Not as Smart as Everybody Says"
date: 2023-08-27T10:58:48+08:00
draft: false
tags: ["stress", "pressure"]
categories: ["life"]
---
In my day-to-day life, I would always encounter people excessively relying on me, especially on subjects like Science, English, and Math. I would also encounter people giving me a stern look, calling me a "know-it-all". Sure, I recently reached some high achievements in class. But despite that, I genuinely think that I am no smarter than everybody else in my program, and I'm slowly growing tired of being treated otherwise because of the pressure and high expectations being brought on to me.

In elementary, I remember being scolded harshly by my parents for not reaching the top 10 achievers. Despite these events dying down as I grew older, I believe it was one of the reasons I grew up with a fear of failure, thus having a mindset of meeting everyone else's high expectations on me no matter what.

Contrary to popular belief, but I despised Math at the time because I wasn't able to catch up with the others at that time. I couldn't really get geometry and algebra up to my mind, and I still have a hard time with the former until now.

As for Science, I just had a fascination with it as a child. I grew up with a lot of encyclopedias in our bookshelves so those were the only books I could ever read. Same goes for English, we had a lot of dictionaries as well for some reason. Without really any techology besides the television, those books were the only source of entertainment I had.

Interest and passion is what drives our mind through different knowledge. I grew up learning to have an interest and being passionate on different things, I could say the same thing for others. Everyone has a passion, they just have to find it. And that passion is what makes you knowledgable in that area of interest.

Now that I'm in high school, I found an interest for math because of my newfound hobby of programming. And that interest is what made me want to learn more concepts in the subject. 

Unfortunately, the mindset I grew with in elementary still stuck with me. I felt anxious every second thinking about school, always asking myself various questions like "Did I get this question correct?" "Did I do this essay/poster right?" "Did I forget to pass my work?" every second. It was hell, but I thought this perfectionist mindset would help make the people around me happier. But instead, it put unecessary pressure onto me.

In group activities, there would be occassions where I feel the group would be most reliant on my input than the others. They would constantly ask "What do we need to do?" over and over, as if that was going to help at all. In the end, it didn't feel like group to me at all.

In the end, the view that I am smarter than everybody else had probably resulted in my being way to stressed handling everything on my own with the tendency of doing it over and over to make it "perfect" in my eyes. I also accepted the expectations people had on me which could be another source of my stress. In the end, being "smart" took a toll in my life for the worse. I don't want to be "smart", I want to be accepted for who I am, I want to feel like a person than a robot helper.
