---
title: "Team Fortress 2 and Its Lasting Community"
date: 2023-08-28T13:22:43+08:00
draft: false
tags: ["games", "fps", "tf2", "community"]
categories: ["video games"]
---
As a shut-in child isolated from the outside world, gaming has been a big hobby of mine. It all began when my father introduced me to my first computer game, Counter-Strike 1.6. As I grew up, I began to delve into other games, but I mostly leaned on singleplayer games. But on the side of multiplayer games, one of the games where I felt a big connection with the playerbase was with Team Fortress 2.

Team Fortress 2 is a free-to-play class-based first-person shooter game released in 2007 that features 9 distinct classes with different playstyles. Aside from the main game, it features a variety of cosmetics which includes taunts, hats, and item effects; along with a thriving player-driven economy. It also has community servers and a workshop as a way for the community to keep the game alive by showing their creativity and love for the game.

But wait. Team Fortress 2 is a game that was released in 2007. How is it still alive after all these years, and actually doing pretty well, today? Well, it's the same way how other old Valve games like Counter-Strike 1.6 and Counter-Strike: Source still have a decent player count as well, and it could all be summed up in one word: Community.

Nothing is more replayable in a game than what the community can provide and make for it. Team Fortress 2 is a great example of this because as more years went by, its culture become richer. Friendlies for instance, are a type of players that are like pacifists that do not harm the enemy team but instead get along with them such as doing the conga with other friendlies in the server and other wacky activities. This phenomenon have become part of what the game is known for today.

Community servers are places where you can experience a different taste of the game, usually bringing about more map varieties and twists on official gamemodes. They are less serious than the official gamemodes, thus more friendlies tend to roam on them, and gameplay is often times more laid-back and chaotic. 

I've witnessed several AAA games die down like yesterday's newspaper. I've seen companies create yearly versions of what seems like the same game with the current year plastered onto it. But, besides the bot crisis and the game's development team rumoured to have been reduced to nothing but a potted plant, I believe Team Fortress 2's legacy will continue to live on as long as the community is still really passionate about the game and the game supports it by providing tools for the community to show their passion for it.

{{< chat 02 >}}
