---
title: "Overwhelming"
date: 2023-09-24T06:29:56+08:00
draft: false
tags: ["pressure"]
categories: ["life"]
---

Ah, life. It’s what might be a minute phenomenon in an insignificant point of the universe. And yet, even this minuscule point strives for order and freedom by following thousands upon thousands of rules and standards. If you sit down and think deeply about anything, life shows its complexity. Life, in reality, is very complex indeed, and it can be pretty overwhelming.

By the time you are born into the world, you are provided by parents that you can only hope treats you well. If not, then you might be forced to face adulthood very young. In addition, society would have probably already given you an image to strive for, what you “need” to become. In a typical Asian household, it would probably be a doctor or an engineer. A failure to reach these standards would make you a “disgrace”.

In school, you’re usually forced into a system that’s incredibly flawed. It encourages teaching children in a single way and punishes you if you fall behind. As a result, it gives you a fear of failure, rather than encouraging failure as a part of learning. It can also force you to learn things that you would probably only remember to pass and forget afterwards. I wonder if that is what learning truly is about nowadays. In certain countries, schools take up a lot of hours of your time, and it can even be invasive on weekends, even if the purpose of weekends existing in the first place is rest and relaxation. In countries like China, there’s a test called the “gaokao” where it dictates the student’s entire future. Schools having that much power — to subject one’s life to either improve or go to ruins based on the results of a piece of paper — can be pretty terrifying to think about.

After school comes college, just one step away towards adulthood. Now, you have to pick a course to choose from. Majority would probably choose the high paying ones because as the saying goes, “money buys happiness”, right? You’re kind of introduced more into money’s role at this stage as well, probably from paying up tuition fees. But what if I like something else? The humanities? Well, the majority of society kind of deems that useless now, so good luck with that. Unlike school, you are almost all alone here. But hey, once you graduate, you’ll finally get a diploma and land yourself a job, as well as some student debt but it’ll be fine!

Welcome to your first steps in adulthood, where society expects you to do nothing but work for the next 40 years of your lifetime. If you picked a job you’re not passionate about, then that life of yours would probably be miserable. But then again, you’ll kinda need the money. Taxes and insurance won’t pay for themselves. You’ll also probably be faced with paperworks — lots of paperworks. You’re also expected to raise a family at that time, which can mean more money. More hours, more shifts, a higher raise, more money, all off that for a tad bit of relaxation before the cycle repeats once more.

And at last, you finally reach retirement. You managed to overcome the thousands of things that can kill you. Finally, you can do the things you couldn’t do because of work. But alas, you only got this short sad life left. A short span of time in a body more and more limited as it ages. You become more vulnerable as your mind returns to that of a child. You’ve come full circle, but this time, a lot closer to the finish line. Would you be able to rest easy knowing you have lived a life that’s full, or would you think and ponder how you could have done much more?

{{< chat 03 >}}
