---
title: "A Perspective of a Hopeless Romantic"
date: 2023-09-24T06:30:03+08:00
draft: false
tags: ["love", "romance"]
categories: ["life", "love"]
---

It may not look like it, but that’s the truth of the matter. I’m a huge hopeless romantic. The genre I’m always craving for is romance and tragedy. I love love and its many complex forms. It can be a really heartwarming and fuzzy feeling for the soul.

My first experiences with love was quite a fascinating feeling. My heart started beating faster than normal, I started seeing the world in a more vibrant perspective, they would intrude my thoughts more often, and I couldn’t even look at the person in the eyes because if I do I would start smiling involuntarily. 

While it can be a great feeling, it is somewhat punishing if you don’t do something with this feelings. Your heart would start hurting, you start grieving, you lose all hope, you feel miserable. 

So, the lesson I got from having these feelings is to cherish them and be true to yourself and to them that you have these feelings rather than being in constant denial about it.

This feeling is probably something I will never experience again because I don’t really see someone like me getting a significant other. But, I don’t mind. A special feeling like this probably only occur once in a blue moon. Besides, it’s still fun to watch others experience this amazing feeling. This along with other forms of romantic stories, I can definitely say I’m in love with love.

{{< chat 04 >}}
