---
title: "Chronic Digital Addiction"
date: 2023-09-25T20:31:00+08:00
draft: false
tags: ["stress", "addiction"]
categories: ["life"]
---

I’ve been met with a heavy feeling lately, as if something was making my life worse. All these headaches I’ve been having, my poor performances in the past, all of those things had me wondering for a long time about the source of my issues. That is, until one day, I’ve finally narrowed it down to my gadgets.

I don’t really know if it’s because of the self-help and philosophical books I’ve read, but all of a sudden I just wanted to get my life straight. Right now, I couldn’t imagine getting used to days of poor sleep, no exercise, and immense cramming sessions, but I did.

I’ve always been an online person all my life, probably because I didn’t leave the house much because of strict parents. So, basically, I was an internet dweller ever since I was a wee lil’ baby, and I liked it a lot. I couldn’t fit in with others throughout my life, so the internet is just a second reality I chose to live in because of that.

But when I finally entered my adolescence, I was struck with a harsh reality check. Most of my childhood, I couldn’t remember anything but being on either the phone or the computer. It was petrifying, really. So, I just sat there in tears because I realized that I wasted so much time in my life — time that I can’t go back on anymore.

I stayed in a life of dependence and consumption whilst looking deeply at a window of creativity and creation without going near it at all. One day I want to create things like that too, I thought to myself a couple of times. But in the end, I never did. I’m terrible at keeping promises, huh? *Heh.*

Right now, I’m actually doing pretty good to combat this issue. I try to keep my phone silent and put it down for a while more often now. I journaled more on this big notebook I bought last year now that had just been collecting dust all this time.

Earlier, I did just that and I reentered this familiar and satisfying feeling I had when I was little, so that was nice. I can’t really tell what the feeling is exactly. But it’s the feeling of just waking up in the early afternoon after sleeping during midday; the electric fan’s still going at level 4 speed and everybody else is still asleep. It’s the best feeling I’ve ever felt to be honest.

In the end, I feel like I got younger again, and it’s a really great and fascinating feeling. It feels like you released something you feel dependent on for so long. Now, I have all this newfound time for myself. It’s like the time you have whenever you get a eureka moment while taking a shower. So, I’ll definitely keep doing this. Definitely.

{{< chat 05 >}}
