---
title: "Deleting Social Media"
date: 2023-11-01T05:59:42+08:00
draft: false
---

I've noticed big time gaps for whenever I post on this website. I think it's probably because I also have social media apps to post my feelings on, especially Facebook. I believe I already have three accounts there already, one for each paradigms of my personality. But, now that I've deleted all those social media apps on my phone and Ipad (Facebook, Youtube, Twitter/X, etc.) altogether, I can probably have more time expressing my thoughts here and in my personal journal in real life.

# The Backstory
Deleting my social media apps happened out of the blue last night when I started thinking about how I use those apps in general. 

For Youtube, I usually just open the television for that anyways, and having it there just made more sense and felt less wrong than watching videos everywhere. I thought I should have just one or two spots for watching videos because having it everywhere just made my life lean towards the consuming side of things and ignore the joys of creation.

For Facebook and Twitter, it just felt wrong for me to scroll there. I always felt that sense of guilt of time wasted for every swipe of my figner. I just felt like something had to be changed.

# The Exceptions
I still use Discord and Messenger, primarily because I still want to keep in touch with people. I have a friend on Discord, and teachers in Messenger. I have no choice even if I really do want to just use SMS.

I still use Youtube on the web as well, just vowing to only use it when absolutely necessary. That includes tutorials and guides on certain topics. For everything else, just read them. After all, I feel the need to do more reading.

# The Drawbacks/Hurdles
The problem with quitting social media in a place like this is how the education system has integrated it in the system with a blind assumption that everybody is using social media nowadays. For instance, posting this for your homework, or liking this page in exchange for additional grades. So, I feel like instead of promoting temperance of social media, they work with the addiction. Probably overexaggerting it a little bit, but that's my point.

Social media has also become the norm nowadays, so saying that you don't have one may give you some widened eyes. But, I don't really care about the norm to be honest. Live your life how you want. Feel free to do so.

# Conclusion
Quitting social media is probably the biggest decision I've made in a while. I'm basically signing up to cutting ties with the habits I've had all my life, so change in that area can be difficult. But, as I've learned when I read Mediations, when you find something that seems to be better than the method you currently use, then don't be afraid to change for that greater good.
