---
title: "mori"
date: 2023-11-27T07:12:11+08:00
draft: false
tags: ['death', 'nature', 'mori', 'memento mori', 'amor fati']
categories: ['life', 'philosophy']
---

This week in particular, I felt death like never before. The multiple local accidents in the news, my old neighbor finally taking his eternal rest, or the several dead critters outside the house. It was like Death himself was swinging his scythe while walking around me in circles, chanting a specific phrase:

“memento mori.”

I had visions of what might play out in the future. What if my parents died? What if my little brother died? What if the cats die? All of them, I envisioned in my mind, and it ended up with me breathing heavily, almost going insane at the thought.

At first, I was lost. What do I do now that I know life is finite? Are there things that I can do now that I am informed of my departure at an unknown date? That was when I found another Latin phrase that was like a magnet to the former:

“amor fati.”

Acceptance, the final stage of grief. So, that’s what I was missing. Accept the future, the past, and the present for what it is for the future is still unknown, the past is done, and the present you are allowed to do whatever you want to do in this finite universe. At the end of the day, a perfectly good system or machinery will break one day. So, use it well while it is ripe and shining. 

I always appreciated the products of past history, including sayings like these. It really does make me think about the humanities and where we would be without them. In the end, they really should be coexisting with science and not only one or the other. I am thankful for meeting my family and the people I have met along the way, good or bad, for they helped me experience the world for myself. I will continue to appreciate how I am given the chance to dream of the future that I want. Even if they don’t come true, well, at least I got to live that perfect scenario in my head, ***heheh***. And lastly, the present, I appreciate the freedom and chance to be. I appreciate the chance of swaying in the middle of the wheat fields or stepping on the many puddles. I appreciate life inviting a storm for me for it keeps it’s always making sure to keep me interested and up on my feet. I appreciate the moment of respite in the middle of all the chaos.

So, with all of that in mind: memento mori, amor fati.

{{< chat 09 >}}
