---
title: "On Writing a Story"
date: 2023-11-28T21:56:54+08:00
draft: false
tags: ["creativity", "writing", "ficiton"]
categories: ["writing"]
---

Writing is not a stranger to me nor is it to anyone. We write a lot of messages all the time on the internet, we probably keep journals, we probably are in academia; writing is really just the foundation of civilization. I definitely got used to it now that I am currently writing up a research paper for school, and I do write blogs like these every now and then. But, these thing usually get pretty boring, so there would always come a thought of me writing fiction. Now, I don't know why exactly, but it always feels like fiction is a whole other beast compared to the usual non-fiction works I write.

Unlike the non-fiction works I gotten used to, there would always be a conventional way and method to do things like the inverted pyramid when doing a news article or the introduction-body-conclusion format in most essays. In making a story, you could bend and mold practically everything. Now there is the plot diagram with the exposition and climax and all that, but no one's exactly telling you to follow that, are they? The point is unlike the empirical and systematic nature of most non-fiction works, in fiction writing, those shackles are non-existant, allowing you to roam the rest of your mind. That is great and all, but as someone who has been shackled for quite a long time now, you would be quite lost as to where to go and how to do things around without being bossed around. That is what's happening to me at the very least.

In the end, fiction is a really hard thing to get along for me, and I really envy those that can do them. Though, this isn't really much of a decleration of defeat. In fact, the more and more I read about Stephen Hawking or Hayao Miyazaki, the more I get inspired to sit by a small wooden table, grab a pad of yellow paper, ink the fountain pen, and write away. I always have that thought of the joy of creation in mind and how passionate I am for creating stuff like these, so I will in fact take my time in this perilous journey and hope to find some sort of respite on the way.

{{< chat 10 >}}
