---
title: "a better mindset"
date: 2023-11-30T21:09:58+08:00
draft: false
tags: ['stress', 'writing', 'perfectionist']
categories: ['life', 'philosophy']
---

I used to be that type of guy who would have this grand idea in his mind and think to himself that he should get up and do it. And so he does, and when he finally got to face that canvas, he started thinking a lot more. He does this for a while until he ultimately decided to call it a day and stored the empty canvas back to its dusty container. In the end, the canvas is still a canvas, the paint is still paint, and the idea becomes one of the thousand corpses from the mind.

The perfectionist mindset, in other words. Many people possess it in this current age with some completely embracing it in their lives, either for the better or for the worse. It can drive someone's passion to become better in what they do, and boost their motivation to be better, but at the same time, puts them under the eye of failure if they dare expect for things to always work out. It's a double-edged sword that cuts really deep on both ends.

So, probably not the best idea to keep this risky mindset. It really does have the ability to drive a person insane if they don't become careful. A cleaner who persistently double-checks the items whether they are in the right place and orientation, a student who thinks about their grades for every second of their life, and in this case, an aspiring painter who can't even land a single stroke on his canvas. 

I sought after better alternatives for this mindset. Once I went outside for a breather and saw the flowers in the front of our house, and they made me think of a good analogy (at least for me) for it:

A flower's growth takes quite some time. Still, it doesn't mean the path is stable for her either. Some beside her wilt, others snap, others get snatched. But still, she grows anyways, past the fangs of parasites, and past the scorch and drench of the weather. In the end, she blossomed to her fullest. Her beauty catched the attention of thousands of eyes of ants, insects, and even humans. Sure, she did lose a petal or two, but the charm remains there. In fact isn't it even more beautiful that she shows and even highlights that imperfection of hers? It was great that she was able to do this in her life, for she, like the others, will have to wilt one day as well. And so, wilt she does.

In other words, keep moving forward because you'll never reach anything if you remain at one singular point and behave like you have the time in the world to do anything you want to do. That's because the reality is, you won't be able to do all of them, and you won't be able to do a lot more if you don't begin.

{{< chat 11 >}}
